Now we are going to put our
money where our mouth is, and
we're going to build something
like this is super exciting.
And so, real quick,
I'm gonna just take a moment and,
I'm going to just Google this just so
everybody can see this.
Sometimes I have a tendency to talk
about things in familiar terms or
I assume prior knowledge.
And, When we're dealing with Angular,
the Angular CLI generates,
our Angular code, and it does a lot
of interesting helpful things.
And or NX is essentially,
it follows this concept of a model repo,
and what it does is it sits
on top of the Angular CLI.
And when it generates an Angular
projects specifically,
it generates it in such a way and
a very specific way, and
it augments the CLI,
with some additional functionality.
Now, what is really compelling about NX,
is that not only can you run,
an Angular application
from an nx workspace,
but you can run a React application.
And so by using this model repo and
pattern, is that you can have
an angular and a React app sitting
side by side, next to each other.
Now this is something that only for
on a dare a double dog dare did
I actually do, but in practice,
what I do use quite a bit,
is Angular and Node, and so
we'll see this in just a moment.
But, really at the end of the day,
it's just think of it as
an extension of the Angular CLI,
that creates your code in such a way, that
it allows you to manage the complexity.
And so I think because of that,
it's probably easier for
me just to show you, what that looks like.
And so I'm going to generate
an application completely from scratch,
and, we're going to build it out.
So I'm just going to go to my desktop,
and we'll do it from here and
I'll start generate an application, and
then at some point I'm gonna switch
back over to the repository.
But for now just to show that
I have no cards up my sleeves,
that there's no tricks, that I'm going
to do this from the command line.
And so how you do this is,
from a command line, and
this was a little interesting to me,
I already had the Angular CLI installed.
But if you go npx, and
create nx workspace,
now this is super handy because I'm
already getting the prompt space.
Now I'm going to pin this
to a very specific version,
so I found that when you
do like get latest or
latest something changes, and
anybody watching this video, it breaks.
And so I'm going to create a workspace and
what I'm gonna do,
is I'm gonna call this, fem for
front end masters production-angular.
And I'm going to run this by itself,
so I'm not gonna do anything, you can
see that I have a number of other kind of
flags or parameters that I'm sending in.
I'm just going to run this
very vanilla initially,
and so what this does is, it goes out and
it actually installs the nx tooling for
you, and
it gives you a number of
really compelling options.
So you can do an empty workspace boring,
react,
angular, next, nest, web components,
react-express, and angular-nest.
So this is my preferred weapon of choice,
and so
you can hit Enter, and
it's gonna ask you an Application name.
So, I'll go dashboard, and
then it will say default style sheets,
so I'm just going through and
I'm answering some questions.
So I'm going to go with Ts lint,
do I wanna use nx cloud so
this is an optimization that nx provides,
that kind of caches different things.
And for production, I highly recommend it,
I'm gonna go with no, and
we're going to let this run.
Now what you can see here is that,
this is being parsed out
into one long command.
So I'm gonna just stop this here,
just rip the needle
right off the record, and
we're going to do this again.
So, I'm gonna delete this,
And we're gonna do it with the flag, so
I recommend that once you're
granted the powers of a CLI,
maximize those as much as possible.
So back to this, now, what we're gonna
do is we're gonna put the flags in.
AppName=dashboard, and
so instead of stepping
through the wizard or
making it interactive.
I'm just going ahead and I am answering or
setting these things myself, so
that I can run this command and
I can walk away and I can come back,
and it is ready to go.
So, linter we're gonna go with tslint,
--style,
And --nx-cloud=false.
All right, so all I've done is I've
taken all of the flags from the wizard,
and I've put them on to a single, Command,
and we're going to let this run.
Now what I recommend is that
if you're watching this,
please do type these commands and
follow along.
And what we'll do is at some point
we'll start to kind of deviate, and
we will do some kind of a coding
challenge, we'll see how that goes,
but ultimately, don't be afraid to type
these commands in, and follow along.
And this will take approximately,
depending on how the Internet is going,
sometimes it takes,
I don't know, two minutes but,
this used to take me two
days to set this all up.
And really what you would
do is at the very beginning
of the Angular days,
that this did not exist,
there was really no good way to get up and
running, with an Angular app.
And so you would just go
find some starter project,
Scott moss actually had one, and
this is what you would use and,
fortunately for us,
that it's progressed to the point
that now I have an entire,
Angular Nest application, ready to go.
And so
I'm gonna step into this folder, and
I'm going to run this, so
I'm just gonna go npm start.
You can see here it's running
the dashboard so, once this is good to go,
we can hop on the browser and
see what this looks like.
So let's go back here, so
it's gonna be at port 4200,
it's just going to look a lot different.
And so
the goal is to kind of move from here,
into something a little bit
more cohesive and helpful.
So let's move on, and I want to show you,
how to adjust the packets.json,
so that if you're running
more than one application,
that you can streamline your commands,
to make that easier.
So I'm gonna go back to my command line,
and you can see here, it tried to connect,
it didn't like it, we need to solve that.
So, let me open up a new tab and,
I'm going to add in a package called,
concurrently.
And this particular package,
I typically do not pin because
it just has not changed in like forever,
all right?
We'll let this run I think we're good,
and,
occasionally I have found that if you're
running, installing something on one tab,
and you have the app running in the other,
like a kind of throws up.
And so I'm gonna stop this because we're
gonna need to fix this anyway, so,
let's go into our code.
And so I'm gonna close this one down,
cuz we're actually gonna
open up a new project, and
we'll just go cone, dot.
And within this, Let's go ahead and
let's tweak this so
we can run the Angular application,
in parallel with the nest application.
So what we'll do here is,
we've installed concurrently,
I'm going to create some custom commands.
So one of them is going to
be called serve API and,
I'm gonna do nx run, api:serve.
Then what I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna go serve:web,
And this is going to be ng -serve,
What I like to do here is --open.
That way, when it's ready to go,
it just opens up the browser tab, and
I don't have to do anything.
So this is just because I'm lazy,
and because I can, and
then from here, we're gonna go
serve:all and one second here.
I'm going to, Quit Rocket,
It's super awesome when you need it,
but not when you don't.
And then from here,
we're gonna go concurrently, and
we're gonna go backspace because
we need to separate these out.
It's a little funny,
especially with Windows,
That you have to do this
in a very specific way,
so, from here npm:run.
I will also say that,
I'm not infallible so
if somebody sees me doing something silly,
feel free to call me out, serve web.
All right,
I have a good feeling about this.
So now, lemme save this,
let's go back into our command line,
and now let's go npm run serve:all.
Wait for it, Here we go,
and so
now what I've done from a single command,
is I was able to streamline
having this run client and
server in two separate tabs, and now we
are pulling in this message from the API.
So if I go to local hosts,
I believe it's 3300,
This might be 3300/api,
Well let's just see here.
So if we go to network,
I'm just gonna keep
guessing until I get it.
I believe honestly it's API hello,
there we go, so behold the magic.
All right, so now up to this point,
we have generated,
an Angular, and nest application.
So, what I wanna do now is I
wanna take just a moment and,
I want to talk about the file structure
that exists within this application,
just to lay the foundation of how
things are going to be organized.